MIMS. So many companies, even surprising
ones like Clorox and McDonald's, they're
using AI for things like customer
service and product innovation. But how
does that actually work? Based on what
I've heard, I've got one word for you.
Agents.
>> Like secret agents, talent agents, who I
need to call about this job, travel
agents. What do you mean by agents?
>> I'm talking about AI agents. AI agents
are advanced computer programs that can
do tasks for you. And we talked about
this with Salesforce CEO Mark Beni off
last year. But we're about to hear from
a CEO who is actually selling his
company to Beni off and Salesforce for 8
billion in order to take this technology
to the next level. That's next.
[Music]
Informatica is a company that's been
around since 1993. It's not a household
name, but many of its clients are and
CEO Amit Walia helps them manage the
mountain of data that modern companies
generate. That data is even more
important than ever as it is helping
companies fuel their ambition in
artificial intelligence. AI, after all,
is powerful when it runs on proprietary
information. It allows companies to set
up AI as customer service
representatives or to glean new business
insights from their operations.
But it takes work to make that data
usable. And businesses like a
pharmaceutical company doing drug
discovery can't afford to get the wrong
answers.
>> In the enterprise world, everybody's
ready for AI except that data. So I
think we expect the same for the world
because on the worldwide web the data is
free available and and by the way if
your answer is 95% accurate or 90%
accurate you're not going to you're not
going to have a wrong drug come or
you're not going to have a wrong product
that will bring bring down a particular
uh infrastructure you can't afford to do
that in enterprise right that puts Wally
in position to understand how everyday
businesses are preparing and thinking
about how to use AI it also makes
Informatica an appealing acquisition
target. Earlier this year, Salesforce
announced it had reached a deal valued
at$8 billion dollar to acquire
Informatica. It's just one of the many
big moves in Silicon Valley to gobble up
AI talent, which has become so precious.
>> AI is not created by AI. People are
creating AI and as long and I really
hope it stays that way and we control
that. Talent matters.
>> From the Wall Street Journal, I'm Tim
Higgins and I'm Christopher Mims. This
is Bold Names, where you'll hear from
the leaders of the bold named companies
featured in the pages of the Wall Street
Journal. Today we ask, how are
businesses preparing themselves for AI?
[Music]
Welcome. Uh before we talk about this
blockbuster deal for Salesforce to buy
your company, let's set the table and
explain what Informatica is all about.
For a lot of listeners, this isn't going
to be a household name. Though many
household names such as Toyota, PayPal,
Unilver use your services. So in the
most basic sense, what do you do?
>> Great question. Well, I think uh in
another way instead of Blockbuster,
maybe you call it the Netflix. is the
next gen, the streaming world or the AI
world. That's
>> absolutely it's not Blockbuster. It's
it's the Netflix. It's Hulu.
>> It's Hulu. Yes. Yes. Well, look,
Informatica, like you said, we are uh
clearly not a consumer name. We serve
consumers. Uh step back. I mean,
Informatica actually is a data
management company. What does that mean?
I mean, look, we help enterprises
create value from that data. Help them
bring data from all kinds of places
within that organization, which sits in
many places. him in a very disorganized
way, in bad quality. We bring it all
together for them to do productive work
with them like you know do analytics,
help understand how their business is
doing or figure out what the next best
offer would be for their customers or
figure out how to create new products
based on the data they have or govern
all the data they have so that they can
continue to make sure everybody within
the organization has the right way to
interact with that data and do other
value added things on top of that data
like understanding your customer better,
understanding your supplier better. All
of those things are called data
management and we serve any of the uh
fortune thousand names that you see
across the globe making them better
companies to serve their end customers.
>> Yeah, I think it's one of those things
when you hear about the power of data is
if all data is like maybe water and it
can just be used for greater purposes.
It's never quite that simple, right?
You've got to you got to pull it from
all the different places. You got to
make sure it can work across the
organization. And it's very complex and
companies like yourself are kind of if
you think about chat GPT as everybody
knows the other end of that kind of
world is a company like yours helping
companies get their data ready to be
used in however however they need to do
it.
>> Totally. And I think Chad GB is a great
example right I mean Chad GBT leverages
the whole internet right
>> and uh you know we index the whole
internet so you can go out and search
for any kind of data out there. We do
that exactly the same thing for
enterprises. In fact, we have our own
GPD called clear GPD and we index the
entire enterprise data. So you can
search the data and you can do something
productive with it versus just writing
essays as my teenagers have done with
chat,
>> right? But to be clear, you I mean this
company was founded in 1993 and you've
had kind of a twisty history along the
way, right? like you went private in
2015,
public again in 2021,
and you know, meanwhile, you've been
rising up the ranks since 2013.
What was your priority since you became
CEO? Was it was it an acquisition like
this?
>> I mean, kind of think of Informatica as
like one of your great Netflix series
that's going on and it's like what?
Season 3, season 4. Pick your whichever
favorite.
>> We're like season seven, I think. 10.
>> Yeah, whatever it is, right? This is
this is like the law and order SVU of
companies. 1993 you were founded. Wow.
>> So we've seen many technology curves and
that's what make this company very
unique that we've seen many technology
uh innovations and trends come by and go
and what has stayed constant for us is
that our northstar that a we have become
we've continued to innovate and each
technology curve data has just become
more important. We create more data and
we make a mess of the data we create.
Somebody has to go out and make that
more usable. So whether
>> like the data janitors
>> well I don't like that
I call it the the data genie we
basically come out there and make make
truly magic happens because you today in
today's world with a few clicks you can
actually do the stuff that 20 years ago
was total serious amount of programming
right so whether it was the days of
transactional databases we saw the world
of the internet the world of big data
the world of mobile and now the world of
AI and you know it's not just the same
technology not only techn Technology
curves have changed, technology trends
have changed. We've also added many many
many more capabilities. We were a single
product company. Today we are a platform
with all things that encompasses data
management. You know it's integration,
quality, governance, mastering,
cataloging. 30 years ago we started as a
tiny single product company that did a
small slice of data integration. So many
of things have changed but to your point
we have seen it all and we've come out
winners bigger company more innovative
company and that's what's very unique
about us
>> I got to ask if we create a pie chart of
your customers who what kind of
companies tend to be your customers
>> all large companies so we serve
enterprises so pick names like Uber in
the nextG company world by the way
Salesforce themselves are a customer you
know you pick many of the airlines
JetBlue you pick Royal Caribbean you go
out across the globe entity Indeed, any
country, large enterprise customers,
government customers, the IRS, so on and
so forth end up being our customers
because that's where the most complexity
is and we help them. You're you're
helping companies kind of make the
transition in a fastmoving tech world,
but you're also making the transition
yourself as a company, right? I think
earlier this year, Informatica stock uh
dropped dramatically, something like 33%
after missing some revenue estimates.
And in part it was because your
customers are actually moving their data
from on premise services to cloud too
quickly. And so I'm just curious what
does that signal about where the
customer is where your business is this
year going forward?
>> Actually to give that answer let's take
three steps back. We've gone through a
tremendous amount of transformation.
Actually we were a public company like
you said before 2016 we went private and
we were a quintessential classic onrem
licensed software company. And when we
went private actually we basically
wanted to become a subscription company
be with cloud being the driver but I
took over in 2020 I make the significant
pivot towards being a cloud company and
within 2020 to 2023 we basically pivoted
100% towards the cloud and in 2023 we
became a cloud only company literally
like there were customers who wanted to
buy our on-prem product and we says no
we wanted to have the only singular
force of going towards the cloud as we
had built out the platform From there
along the way in that journey I took the
company public in 21 fall and we got
listed again on NYC. So we were public
we went private we came out as a public
company again and we basically pivoted
to the cloud. But if you step back this
year
starting from scratch the company that
had zero cloud business we've guided to
a billion dollar of cloud ARR and that
if you look at many of startups we talk
about billion dollar valuation. We built
a billiond dollar business from scratch
within an existing company. Now what
we're doing along the way is that we've
taken our legacy business and we're
shedding it. We're moving it to the
cloud and we are actively not selling it
at all. It's kind of there as it moves
to cloud or goes away. And we're okay
with that because that's the hardest
part. Companies stick to their legacies
and hold on to it. And we knew that
that's not where the world is going. So
we pivoted very bravely and not many can
do that to be very honest. It's a very
hard decision to make to shed your old
and build the new and the new is only
usually done by startups. Now along the
way what happens is that if you if you
have basically you're reducing one
growing new you're going to have a
weighted average that goes down. But our
cloud business by the way was growing
mid30s last year. We've guided to mid20s
this year on a billion dollar run rate
>> and that weighted average going down
>> weighted average because it remains mid-
single digits because you have a billion
dollar old on-prem business that is
reducing and you have a new business
that's growing. So you can do the math
but the reality is that within we built
a startup within the company that is now
a billion dollar on guidance revenue and
that's at of course at scale your growth
rate is going to slow down as an example
>> right and but earlier this year your
your stock plunged by about a third
after you missed your revenue estimates.
>> We we guided down yes we guided down and
you know people want us to keep guiding
up and and we took a hit on that one and
that's fine. I mean you know we the
stock was on a high up too you know and
I think if we all look at the day the
stock goes down we can all look at the
day the stock goes up and at the end of
the day life normalizes in the long term
and we got to be careful on that one.
>> When we come back we ask Wallia why
Informatica was worth so much money and
what it means for the future.
>> Why then were you worth $8 billion to
Salesforce?
>> Simple GI like I said everybody's ready
for AI except the data. They see it. We
see it. They talk to the same customers
we do.
>> Stay with us.
[Music]
You're experiencing the challenges of of
kind of the next generation of
technology just like your customers are.
in in your role, I mean, you have great
insight into what normal businesses, and
I say normal, not just tech companies,
um, how they're making these transitions
in tech. And I'm just curious, you know,
what you're seeing with businesses these
days when it comes to AI. Um, if you
live in Silicon Valley or in San
Francisco where I do, you think
everybody's gaga for AI, but uh, what's
your sense outside of the bubble that
we're in? where where are CTO's minds
and and uh the IT department's minds on
this new technology.
>> Yeah. No, I think I think you is the
right word the bubble we live in like I
live in Silicon Valley too, right? And I
have startup friends, I have VC friends
and I think if you look at one part of
the narrative, the whole world is being
run on AI today. And the reality is that
I always say when you when you leave
Silicon Valley you're in let's say
Witchah Kansas and you have a customer
over there that's where the reality is
and the answer is like anything by the
way in some ways is it's not different
than any other technology in the
enterprise world the adoption takes time
not for any wrong reason but the reality
is that if you if I use this phrase that
in the enterprise world everybody's
ready for AI except their data.
So I think we expect the same for the
world because in the on the worldwide
web the data is free available and and
by the way if your answer is uh Jim you
know 95% accurate or 90% accurate you're
not going to you're not going to have a
wrong drug come out or you're not going
to have a wrong person passing through
the immigration counter or you're not
going to have a wrong product that will
bring bring down a particular uh
infrastructure. You can't afford to do
that in enterprise. Right? So in
enterprise classically takes time and
every cycle has taken time and what
happens that we hype it up and then we
say well it's going to take over
tomorrow and then we say well it hasn't
taken over yesterday so what's wrong
with it nothing's wrong with it you know
you know think of the things like first
of all your data has to be right that
takes work skill sets have to be there
you have to figure out the right use
cases blah blah blah all that stuff you
add up and it takes time so where where
enterprises are is that everybody's
doing something with the app make no
mistake absolutely yes it's not a matter
of if it's a matter of when and there
are a lot of them are in what I call
pilot pre-pro experimenting some have
done production stuff but on the margin
and where you are seeing is that
everybody is lading up because what we
see in our in our concept customer like
we are now getting ready we're doing the
plumbing work to get the data ready
because for example even if I got a use
case ready now I got to make sure that I
have the right governance on top of it
right you don't want wrong decisions to
come out you don't want wrong answers to
come out you don't want wrong person
accessing wrong data if you're a
pharmaceutical company let's say doing
drug discovery you want to use AI even
99.5% won't be very good for you. So
they're all going through that and I I
totally see that the risk is very high.
Right. Rightfully so. So that's where
enterprises are.
>> So
why then were you worth $8 billion to
Salesforce?
>> Simple Genai. Like I said everybody's
ready for AI except the data. They see
it. We see it. They talk to the same
customers we do. They are users of our
technology. They see it. And when you
look at that, getting the data estate
ready
is the hardest problem right now.
>> So wait wait wait to translate that into
just lay person's terms. You mean
getting this unstructured data which
supposedly Genai can just chew through
on its own even so there's a lot of data
preparation that needs to be done.
>> The models have to be fed something.
>> A model by itself.
>> Can't I just feed them everything that
I'm storing in my like Microsoft or Box
Cloud or whatever?
>> They'll elucidate like hell. So,
>> and hallucinate means they come up with
crazy answers. They say that bold names
is the the best podcast ever. Oh,
actually it is. But
>> so, so exactly right. And then you know
where do you go? How do you find the
data? Right. So, and by the way, the
other one is that in any organization
not everybody's accessing all the data,
right? You want to make sure that there
is a model ready for doing let's say
drug discovery. There's a model doing
code to market uh campaigns. You got to
have two different people accessing
those models have to be trained for
that. And by the way, nobody's looking
to put all the data into some worldwide
web for the model to be fed over there.
They want the models to be working
within their four walls. There's a lot
of prep work to be done for that. Right.
>> So clearly Salesforce being a customer
of Informatica, they had some visibility
into not just what you do, but the
necessity of what you do.
>> Could you take us inside that courtship?
>> Yeah. Did you get flowers uh from Mark
Benny?
>> Did you go to the island in Hawaii?
Please tell. Give us a little bit of a
tik tok of what happened. Just so you
know, Mark has been a guest on Bold
Names and he uh dialed in from Hawaii
and we saw his dogs in the background.
So, it seems like a pretty nice place.
>> Yeah, we know what's going on.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Well, look, I mean, I think
um
I said Mark's Mark's Mark's an amazing
guy and you know, obviously he's he's
got a vision. I mean, he's built
something terrific at scale and he's
like looking at the next big thing which
is all around where the agentic world is
going. So when Mark and I chatted and I
think his vision was really bold and
he's he sh
>> Wait, how did that but how did that
conversation start? Did he just like hit
you up on signal or you guys were
already talking? How did this happen?
>> Hit me up on signal. No, I don't think
we use signal. I'm I'm not a signal kind
of guy. We're not doing anything that
secretive to be honest. Everything is
fine. It's all public. We disclose
everything. You'll see all the uh you
know through the regulatory compliance
process everything being published. I've
been looking at it this way in all
simplicity, right? Mark and I chatted
and I think his vision was uh very bold
that agent force where he's taking the
agentic world and the world is going to
go agentic we all know that and he
realized that the stumbling block
everybody will face is at the data layer
and his is is he what he wanted to hear
from me first is like what's your vision
and when I took him through our vision
of AI which is RAI called clear and we
going with GPT and our vision for agent
it just harmonized very well and he's
talking to his customers his customers
are telling him where the stumbling
blocks for data is or stumbling for AI
to be successful is and and they are our
customers and they're telling him that
hey in a lot of places they use us by
the way the other thing was very
important for both sides was also that
obviously look there are two things that
matter at the end of the day it's the
innovation you build ultimately in tech
it's all about you know innovation
second is people ultimately people are
still building innovation
>> so he wanted your talent to some extent
>> absolutely and the values on both sides
mashed a lot like I mean in fact we have
our values data do good act as one team
think customer first and aspire to
innovate and they have their values and
it was literally a match. I mean,
different words how they phrase it, but
literally a match. And that matters a
lot to us.
>> Well, let's take a step back here
because really what Salesforce vision
for AI is that they use these things
called agents. So, essentially the AI
can go maybe perhaps do customer service
for a company. The idea being the
customer will come and plug in their
data in a way that will allow that to
work. And so, that's why I I would
imagine he was interested in your
company because you need help cleaning
up that data. But one thing I wonder
here is Informatica has been called the
Switzerland of data because you work
with everybody. Uh how does this change
the game once this deal goes through?
It's I I believe on track to close in
early 2026. Is that correct?
>> Does not change. Absolutely. They were
very clear in saying that and that was
one of the big discussions we had. In
fact, I think people sometimes confuse.
They have no desire to change it for all
the right reasons that ultimately the
Switzerland of data, the metadata that
we collect, all of those things become
extremely important the wider they are,
the bigger they are in the context of
the agentic world for agent force in
particular. So they want that and they
were very clear, Mark was very clear
that that doesn't change. So that does
not change. And by the way, we talked to
all of our partners and and and give
them and they all see that. So none of
that changes. That's important. That's
important to us. That's important to
them and that's important to our joint
customers.
>> I guess one of the things I'm curious as
we talk about this deal, it seems like
okay, you know, we can understand why
you would want to do it. Why did the
talks break down last year?
>> I'm looking at where we are today and
where we're going with that, right? And
I think uh so
I believe in generally in life there's
always things happen and things happen
the right things happen at the right
time for all the right reasons. I'm a
big believer in those and I think we can
always try to always piece part things
but in life things happen when they have
to happen. You can try as much as you
want to. We are all analytical people.
Sometimes we can put our head against
banger against the wall even when we
developing product. Sometimes we are
ahead of the market by the way and I
thought there was a product that we were
ahead of the market and we you know we
we we didn't take off it took off much
later like why it made so much sense but
sometimes things have to happen when
they have to happen. So, you just
couldn't come to terms in 2024?
>> Uh, you know, I think I look at it where
we are today. I mean, I I think well
don't want to for all the right reasons.
I, you know, just
>> we love the drama. Give us the drama.
>> I think what is it? We can create drama
without for a lack of not having drama.
We can create drama. No, there is
unfortunately remember we are the boring
enterprise B2B software company. We
believe in reducing drama.
>> Well, well, you're not so boring because
I you know, there have been some critics
of this deal. I think um you know, some
worry that Salesforce acquired Mulesoft
uh in 2018, essentially kind of one of
your rivals. So, don't they already have
some of this in house? And then one of
the co-founders of uh Informatica was
telling Market Watch uh before this this
was announced that um he thought it
would take five years to integrate
Salesforce in your company and that this
was really about Salesforce trying to
bulk up its revenue and its engineering.
What do you think of those criticisms?
>> So on new first of all look uh we first
of all our business is much broader. We
do data integration, app integration,
data quality blah blah blah. There's a
very very broad suite of data management
from the outside some of the words look
very similar from the inside that's not
very true in some cases very
complimentary they do a bunch of API
related stuff that we don't do we do a
lot of so I think the how people
perceive that to be on paper is actually
not true in practicality and I leave it
at that I mean I can't comment on what
people have to say you really want me to
like win
I mean I I I don't know the guy never
met the guy no clue what he does where
he is. Anybody can have an It's a free
world, remember, right? So, I'll leave
it at that.
>> Still a free world, I guess.
>> But you you you are I mean, especially
in AI, there is this in incredible
incredible arms race for talent right
now. I mean, reportedly hundred million
dollar deals. It's like people are
signing LeBron James to a 5-year
contract, but it's AI engineers.
>> You and I have to go find those deals.
>> Oh, we're looking. Trust us. Trust me,
we're looking for it every day.
>> Here's the thing, though, right? So, you
know, Meta has been spending money like
it's water. Um,
and presumably that was part of why Beni
off wanted your company, right? You have
experienced seasoned talent. What do you
think is driving this uh talent arms
race?
>> Well, no doubt talent matters.
Absolutely talent matters. AI is not
created by AI. I mean maybe someday
it'll be like some AI will write its own
AI and we will and AI will deploy its AI
and all of us will be sitting there
watching this whole show happen. That's
a creepy world. I don't want to be in
that world. People are creating AI and
as long and I really hope it stays that
way and we control that talent matters
and and and very clear like and and and
when Mark was looking this company has
amazing talent. We make the best
products because we have the best people
in the world making the best products.
It matters at the end of the day. So no
doubt that's very true and and we're
proud of that one. and and like I go
back I mean without talent where we
going to go it's true in our case and
it's going to be true in any tech curve
right ultimately
>> but there there have been I mean to date
there have been tens of thousands of uh
net job losses in tech and I believe the
past 12 18 months so it's not about any
kind of talent right now it's about AI
talent why is AI talent so special right
now when you know Microsoft is
announcing thousands of layoffs and the
like. I I mean look in some ways it's
why is AI talent because it's it's the
it's the next gen thing not many people
know about it and to be honest like
whenever a new technology has come and
there's always few people at the
beginning who know that technology right
I mean and then of course as and when
the technology becomes more mature more
and more people know that technology and
that talent war eases out and I think
things change but in some ways there's
always new technology fewer people
everybody wants to get ahead of the
curve there's a winner there's always
the first more advantage. Whosoever wins
who's in the market first and nobody
wants to lose that battle. So that's
that's quite natural in a way obviously
being played out at a bigger stake
because it's I think a massive change
that's going to happen in the world of
tech through AI. We all I mean we all
believe that even if it takes 5 years 10
years in different ways shape or form
it's going to have a massive impact on
all of us.
A Salesforce spokesperson said the
planned acquisition of Informatica is a
strategic step to accelerate its
customers AI transformations. The
company also said it's committed to
investing in Informatica's ecosystem of
data and infrastructure partners as well
as utilizing its marketing and
distribution teams to accelerate the
growth of Informatica's cloud business.
When we come back, Wallia talks about
the hype around AI and what comes next.
Everybody wants to find the winner. Only
a few will come out. And so I think the
bubble is a natural thing.
>> Stay with us.
>> You've been in the valley a long time.
We've seen bubbles come and go. Is AI in
a bubble right now?
>> Look, I I I'll say that tongue and
cheek. Every technology curve creates
its own bubble. When has it not? But at
the same time, and it's very natural. I
mean, let's be analytical about it. We
all call it a bubble. Why? Here's what
happens. I'll take the analogy of the
big data world. Big data world. We saw
that in our market, right? Every VC
invested in every part of the big data
stack. And pick a number. If there are
100 VCs, 200 VCs, and then number of VCs
are growing, 500 VCs, thousand VCs,
everybody wants to make an investment in
that part of the stack. Suddenly you
have what thousand startups running
around right not all of them will
survive so that's the bubble right now
what will happen is that then some will
come out as winners and then many will
go away and that's the law of the best
survive it's happening now too now there
are more VCs who are putting more money
into that so we will have a bigger but
it's the same everybody wants to find
the winner only a few will come out and
so I think the bubble is a natural thing
I I don't look at it something not
natural it's
>> how how far away from a correction. Do
you think we are? And what does a
correction look like this time around?
>> I have no idea. I mean, I was reading
something the other day. These I mean, I
catch up on podcast. I'm like, okay, 18
months away, 24 months of me, I have no
ide
if I can predict the future. I have no
clue.
>> Okay. I just I just pulled a book off my
shelf. Are you familiar with this book,
by the way? How big things get done?
>> No, I'm not.
>> Okay. The reason I ask is the core
principle of this book who it's by a guy
who like plans how you build giant civil
engineering projects for a living is a a
principle that you've espoused right
going slow to go fast
and what does that mean to you and how
does that work in AI development where
it seems like everybody's trying to go
fast to go faster.
>> True. So look I mean I think the word
slow is kind of looked down upon.
>> Mhm.
>> Of course we all want to go fast. We've
been going fast like hell. I mean chat
GPT came out in 22 and 23 May we
launched our version of GPT. So we were
running like crazy ourselves. The point
being go back to the principles of
engineering. If you start coding without
writing a proper design dock or without
having the concept clear in your mind
about building the product what you will
do you will create a lot of pain for you
down the line. And in enterprise
software if you're basically serving
large customers the cost for that is
very high very high because they're
going to implement for mission critical
use cases where we are serving and you
can say no I got that wrong and I'm
going to change it over it's it's very
high and customers have elephant in
memory of getting something wrong and
they're going to be like well now I'm
going to wait for it. So go slow to me
is that do you have the right vision for
the of course iterate fast get previews
get customer feedback but do you have
the right vision for the product? Have
you been very crystal clear about what
you want the outcome to be? What exactly
the use case is serving and what will
you get? And sometimes we want to rush
through that getting the right
architectural decision because you
making some of those right in the first
stage can help you in the long term. Of
course, you're going to get some wrong.
That's okay. So to me that's about step
back. So every time you're rushing then
I hold the team back and say let's have
a have a design day. We're going to
talk. We're just going to talk. And that
to me is what I mean by go slow to go
fast so you don't make big mistakes and
errors for the long term but you should
make short for the short term because
that's tech. You're going to you're
going to keep fixing them which I have
to imagine is somewhat important to some
of your huge clients who some of these
boards are really worried about kind of
compliance issues when it comes to their
data and and making sure that they don't
kind of get over their skis as they roll
this stuff out. I mean, we've seen just
how some of these AI chatbots can be
very embarrassing to some of these
companies already. And when you've got
the company's reputation on the line,
that can be nerve-wracking. What's your
advice there?
>> Totally. And by the way, this is where I
going back to the earlier question as
why why are things slow in enterprise?
And the reason for that is not because
they want to be slow. As they get to
more heavyduty production, now they're
thinking about compliance use cases,
governance use cases. And by the way, we
think of we think of regulatory
compliant industries. It's just not just
that. Your brand matters. If you do
something wrong, your brand will suffer,
right? If I basically let my chatbot do
whatever it is on the customer end of
things and chatbot gets it totally
wrong. I'm going to have a very
pissed-off customer. That's a very
distasteful experience for a customer
spending a lot of money, right?
Customers care about compliance and data
should not go into the hands of wrong
people and you know all those kind of
things. So, you got to get that right.
This is where enterprises are different
than consumers and enterprise serving
consumers have a much higher bar.
>> We've talked a lot about enterprise
customers here. Not surprising given
your role, but you have a good insight
into where things are going for the
consumer given your role. And I'm just
curious, put your magic ball out there
where things are going. Clearly, you're
a believer in aic AI. And I guess I
wonder what does the rise of these
agents mean for consumer computing, in
particular mobile? How are we going to
interact with our digital overlords?
>> Yeah. How much autonomy are we going to
give them?
>> Rise of the agents, digital overlords.
I'm I'm feeling a little scared right
now.
>> I mean, it'll be an agentic world for
sure. We all we all see that coming and
now it'll take different spans of time
for different consumer apps versus
enterprise apps and front-end apps
versus backend apps. All those things
will go through at their different life
cycle for sure. But agentic is the way
to go. No doubt about that. Does that
mean it's the end of the app store?
>> Uh, no. It could be the I don't know. It
could very well be. I I'm I'm no expert
in in the world of consumer. Maybe app
store becomes agent store. I don't know.
I have no idea.
>> Where do you think we're going to see
adoption first? Because right now,
the folks who tell me that they're
actually using agentic AI, it's very
much in the back end. It's very much,
you know, using it as a factory worker
rather than as a an employee. And uh,
you know, great if you want to translate
from one codebase to another, but at
what point are is this going to start to
affect me in any way as a consumer?
>> Any anything takes time. I think you're
right. I think part of the part of the
reason is that the even the technologies
to support doing that stuff are not
fully ready. Right. Right. Even the
agentic stuff is not ready yet to be out
there but definitely so much of the
backend stuff is happening right now
like you said right I mean look at how
code writing has changed and how we can
do things and assisted code code
creation is just is just gone through
the roof right now so on and so forth
but I think some of them have to be
properly vetted out and I think that's
what is happening and and a lot of
startups are vetting it out a lot of a
lot of companies like ours are
internally you know basically running
experiments to do that so I think it's
it's time uh I mean look I think 2026
will be a big
A lot of stuff is happening this year. I
think you will start seeing a lot
happening. I think we will visibly see
some stuff in the sense of impacting us
end to end. But we will I I expect
visibly to see some stuff that like, oh,
so that happened and and oh, so I can
see that becoming something bigger. I I
expect to see that 2026.
>> Well, uh I think that's probably a good
spot to end it today. We could go on for
much longer, but I really appreciate you
making time to talk about not only the
now, but also the future. Thank you for
hosting. We really love talking to both
of you. Let's see how the world holds
together. Maybe we can come back
sometime next year and see what happened
and then we can give a report card to
the last year and then figure out the
next 12 months.
>> I like that. I like that. We're going to
we're going to have you come back and uh
either crow about your agentic AI
prediction or e crow on that particular
account.
>> We I keep saying we'll go slow to go
fast.
>> Absolutely.
>> Thank you guys.
>> Stick around. Tim and I are going to get
into how this moment compares to the
early dot boom and why now is the moment
for Salesforce to spend big on
acquisitions like Informatica.
>> So Mims, what do you think about uh his
answer the why Informatica is worth 8
billion to Salesforce?
>> I think a big part of this clearly is
the fact that Informatica has been in
this game for so long and Salesforce is
a customer. So data preparation doesn't
exactly stir the blood, but if you need
them, if you're a customer of them,
>> it's not an only fans account, that's
for sure.
>> Then
you know, you know what their value is.
And and of course, this is the thing
about AI. We just keep hearing this over
and over again. Generative AI was
supposed to make it possible to just
kind of magic any giant pool of data.
But you just can't get away from the
fact that you got to clean it up. You
got to do the basic data science to make
it good, to make it usable. There's no
escaping that.
>> All the headlines out there, the biggest
headlines are about the open AIs of the
world raising all of these huge billions
of dollars and all the money they're
spending. But I think you think of the
gold rush of another era in San
Francisco and that is the Levis's jeans
of the world who made the money off of
everybody rushing to the gold mines,
right? And that Informatica in a lot of
ways
>> not expect that gold rush.
>> Informatica is kind of like that, right?
Just like Nvidia is like that just like
a lot of these companies um who maybe
are not uh you know as popular but are
key to making this kind of leap um are
finding new new relevance I guess or new
new value.
>> Yeah. Well, I appreciate you picking an
example from your youth, but if we fast
forward to my youth, I was thinking
about the gold rush of the internet,
right?
>> Oh, I heard about that. I read about it.
>> Yeah, you might have. I think maybe you
were asleep. That was before you cut off
your beard and woke up and discovered
the 20th century. But um obviously what
happened then was you built out a lot of
infrastructure which makes the internet
physically today, right? So you have all
the fiber optic stuff that was put in
the ground and some of those companies
were people forget the biggest ones in
the bubble then they died but the
infrastructure that they built later
gave rise to the subsequent internet
booms. And I do wonder sometimes with a
lot of this AI stuff and people tell me
this, right? They think a lot of the big
tech companies are hedging their bets by
investing tens of billions into these
giant AI data centers. But when there's
a pullback, what's going to be left? Is
this less exciting but super necessary
stuff like what Informatica does? So is
Informatica a good deal for Salesforce
or if they waited a little bit longer,
you think they could have got more? you
know, at a certain point, a few, you
know, a few months ago, a few months
earlier, they were valued much higher.
Um, just curious, did they did they meet
did they prime the time the market
correctly?
Well, here's a a fun little uh finance
lesson that I learned recently.
Salesforce could wait until there's a
fire sale on AI companies, but by that
point, maybe it's too late because
Salesforce's value is that much lower.
So when we're in this inflated bubble
environment, these crazy valuations
make sense because the company doing the
acquisition, whether it's Salesforce or
Meta or even Open AI, they've got the
money to burn, right? Or they have the
equity, right,
>> if it's stock is any part of that deal
or they're borrowing against that stock.
And in some ways it seems as investors
and of these public companies are kind
of excited to see some of this big
spending going on, right? Because if
you're changing the world, what's a few
hundred million between friends, right?
And those are the kinds of salaries that
that uh Meta is paying to to lure in big
AI talent. And 8 billion, maybe this is
a deal. Maybe it'll it'll help them get
to the next level at Salesforce.
And that's bold names. Our producer is
Danny Lewis.
We had additional help this week from
Ariana Osperu. Our fact checker is Aarna
Nathan. Michael Lval and Jessica Fenton
are our sound designers. Jessica also
wrote our theme music.
>> Our supervising producer is Katherine
Milsop. Our development producer is
Aisha Al-Muslim. Scott Saloway and Chris
Sinsley are the deputy editors and Fana
Patterson is the Wall Street Journal's
head of news audio. For even more, check
out our columns on wsj.com.
We've linked them in the show notes.
>> I'm Tim Higgins.
>> And I'm Christopher Mims. Thank you for
listening.